unpopular opinion, Instagram is not
hard. It's actually very simple. There
are some parts of Instagram that are
supposed to be hard, like the time it
takes to grow, the creativity, and the
discipline required to keep showing up.
But for most people, that's just the
start. For the vast majority of people,
the actual hardest part is keeping up
with trends, updates, and hacks.
Figuring out the algorithm so that you
can actually get views, and of course,
overthinking every single post that you
make. Now, I know that it sounds crazy
to say that growing on Instagram is
actually not very complex. It's simple
and it can be easy, but it's possible.
And sure, it might have been a little
bit easier to grow on Instagram a decade
ago, but people are still growing today.
In fact, I want to say thank you really
quickly. I just hit 800K followers
myself on Instagram, which if you aren't
already following me on Instagram, go
check me out, Brock 11 Johnson. But
don't just take me as an example,
because I get it. I'm a guy teaching
people how to grow on Instagram. So some
people think it's easier for me to grow
on Instagram. You could take my dog Mila
for example who has over 200,000
followers and we gained that following
in about a year. Or don't take Ma as an
example because maybe you're thinking,
"Oh, she only grew because she's a cute
dog." Take our average Insta Club
student. Our average engaged Instac Club
student, which the Insta Club is like my
Instagram school where I teach people
how to grow on Instagram step by step.
The average engaged student grows by
1,200 followers in their first month and
almost 16,000. The exact number is
15,947
followers in their first 12 months,
within their first year. I'm not here to
sell you the club. I'm not even going to
put a link anywhere to join the club.
I'm just giving you that statistic so
that you know that it's possible. And
what I'm about to share with you today
is not some random fufu advice. This is
not some random hack, some random
strategy. This is the absolute no BS
simple guide for growing on Instagram. I
can guarantee that if you watch to the
end of this video, you will know how to
grow on Instagram and you'll feel a lot
more at peace while doing it. You won't
feel so stressed out all the time.
Because honestly, making this simple and
easy is what I'm all about. And the way
that we make it simple and easy is by
focusing on the things that are going to
make the biggest difference. Recently, I
posted about one of these new Instagram
features on my Instagram, and I got a
bunch of comments from people saying,
"I'm exhausted. I'm overwhelmed.
Instagram is so hard to keep up with."
And I totally understand what that feels
like. I get it. You're a small business
owner or a content creator, or you're
just trying to grow a brand and a
following for yourself online, and it
feels like there's a neverending flood
of changes and things you have to keep
up with and new trends you have to try
and algorithm shifts and adjustments.
And in fact, prior to creating this
episode, I pulled my audience to see
what the biggest struggle is that you're
having on Instagram. And according to
that poll, over 75% of people reported
that it was either figuring out the
algorithm, keeping up with the trends,
changes, and updates or not knowing what
to post/ overthinking the posts that you
are making. And like I said, I get it.
It makes sense. I remember when I first
started trying to grow on Instagram back
in 2018. For the first six years of my
Instagram experience, I was a teenager.
I was in high school or in college and I
was using Instagram like most people
were in those days. I wasn't using it
for marketing. I wasn't using it for
business. I was just posting cool little
updates of my life. But then in 2018 or
maybe even the end of 2017, I started
taking Instagram seriously. And those
first few years were rough. It was a
year or two of very, very slow, minimal
growth. Constantly scratching my head
trying to figure out what to post. And I
know you can relate to this one.
Spending so much time thinking about
every single post, making sure that the
filter looked right, the editing looked
right, making sure that the caption was
well written, finding the perfect Drake
lyric to go along with the photo of me.
It was draining and exhausting. But then
I figured out what really makes the
biggest difference. And I started doing
more studies, more tests, more analysis.
Heck, we even added a staff member to
our team who is a PhD in researching
Instagram. Basically, she got her
doctorate in qualitative research of
Instagram and building communities on
Instagram. And so now she is a full-time
team member who helps me with this
research and these studies so that I can
give you the no BS advice, the research
stuff that's actually going to make the
biggest difference. So in today's
episode, I'm going to give you the five
ways that you can actually grow and see
results on Instagram. And if you just
focus on these five things, if you can
get these five things through your
school, I promise you, you will see
results. I would argue that number one
is the most important, and it's that you
need to focus on the audience rather
than the algorithm. In that poll that I
did asking people what their biggest
struggle was, the most common response
was figuring out the algorithm. And
here's the real deal. According to Adam
Moseri, in my interview with him earlier
this year, he said the algorithm changes
every single day. So if you're trying to
figure it out, then that becomes a daily
job. That's stressful. That's
overwhelming. If there are ever any
massive Instagram algorithm updates, I
will let you know here on this podcast,
on my Instagram, in the Insta Club, I
will let you know about the massive
shifts. But what you need to understand
is that it's constantly changing. Every
single day there are slight algorithm
tweaks and updates and changes. And so
you got to stop trying to figure it out.
You got to get off the hamster wheel of
trying to figure out the algorithm and
instead shift your focus to be on your
audience. And the reason for that is
that ultimately it is the audience that
drives the algorithm. I recently saw a
creator talking about how he posted one
style of video and the algorithm didn't
like that. That's not true. That's not
the case. it was that the audience, his
audience, didn't like that. Quite
literally, they didn't like the post.
They didn't engage, comment, save, or
share. And so, the algorithm determined
that this post wasn't very engaging, and
so it showed it to less people. If it
was the algorithm that dictated whether
or not a post was good. If it was just
the algorithm that decided what kind of
content it likes, then we would all not
be so addicted to Instagram and Tik Tok
and Facebook and YouTube. We are
spending as much time on our phones and
we're spending as much time scrolling on
social media as we are. And the
algorithms have gotten so good at
showing us what we want to see because
we are constantly giving it more and
more and more data by engaging with
posts, liking, viewing, saving, sharing,
all those good things. Every tiny little
nuanced interaction that you have with a
post is being tracked by the algorithm
all to figure out what do you actually
want to see. So, if you post a certain
kind of video and it doesn't get very
many views, the answer was not that the
algorithm was mad at you that day. The
answer was that your audience wasn't
interested in that post. So, rather than
trying to figure out what the algorithm
wants, figure out what your audience
wants. And the best way to do that is by
posting and looking at what they are
engaging with. Look at the kinds of
posts, the kinds of topics, the style of
videos, the hooks, carousels, reels,
length, duration, closed captions,
audio, music, all those different
variables that could go into a post.
Consider those things when determining
whether or not your audience liked the
post. And of course, more importantly,
why they engaged with the post. But with
that being said, I know that there's
some of you watching or listening right
now who are like, "Brock, no matter what
I post, no one engages." Well, it could
be the case that over the course of many
years, five plus years, you've
consistently posted things that just
weren't very engaging. And so, the
algorithm has learned that your account
as a whole is not very engaging. And so,
it's going to stop showing your post to
your followers. That can definitely be
the case. I've done an episode of Build
Your Tribe in the past about deciding
whether or not you should revive a dead
account, whether or not your account is
dead in the first place. If you are
going to revive it, how do you restart
it? So, I'll link that up somewhere if
you want to check that out. But besides
that rare case, which maybe represents
10% of people, for most of us, the
reason our posts aren't getting very
much engagement is because they're not
very engaging. And of course, if none of
your posts are getting very much
engagement, then what data do you have
to go on? Well, what we have to remember
is that while we are all creators, we're
all business owners, we're all creating
content for social media, we're also
consumers. And so, I want you to look at
what kinds of posts are showing up in
your feed and become a conscious
consumer. I think we all spend way too
much time mindlessly scrolling and not
enough time consciously consuming. And
so I want you to retrain your brain. It
doesn't have to be 24/7 all of your
social media use, but maybe just set
aside a window of time. Maybe it's 30
minutes twice a week. Maybe it's 10
minutes each morning while you're
sipping your coffee and just consciously
consume. What I mean by that is every
single post that you see, pick out clues
from it. Pick out key elements that
either were engaging or that weren't. If
you love videos of rock climbing, but
your favorite rock climber just posted a
video on his Instagram and you didn't
think it was very good, like you watched
it for two seconds, then you scrolled,
just pause and ask yourself, why did I
scroll? I'm usually into this topic. I'm
usually into this creator. Why was this
specific video boring? And then, how can
I avoid those things in my content?
Similarly, but on the opposite end of
the spectrum, if there's a post that you
thought was really funny, a post that
you sent to your loved one, a post that
you commented on, a post that you saved
for later, why did you do those things?
Was it that the creator told you to do
so? Was it something different that they
were doing? Was it funny? Was there some
storytelling element? Was there music in
the background that really added to the
mood? Picking apart each of these little
elements over time will allow you to
improve your own content without needing
to rely on the data from your own
audience. But again, it's all about the
audience, the real people, not the
algorithm. The second way that you're
going to grow and see results on
Instagram is something that you're not
going to like to hear. And it's
something that I've been preaching about
for the last four or five years, and
every single time I talk about it, I get
hate. I get push back. Other Instagram
coaches try to crucify me for it. And
it's that I believe that you should
focus on quantity. Yes, quantity rather
than quality. Let me explain. I am in no
way encouraging you to post random crap.
I am in no way encouraging you to just
throw spaghetti at the wall and see what
sticks. But what I am encouraging you to
do is alleviate the stress and the
pressure of trying to make an A+ post
every single time. Take the weight and
the burden off your shoulders of trying
to create highquality content with every
single post. When you're first getting
started, which if you're watching this
episode, it's because you're just
getting started. It's because you
haven't hit the goals that you're trying
to hit. It's because you're not getting
the engagement that you want. You're not
getting the views that you feel like you
deserve. You don't have the number of
followers that you feel like you should
have by now. Well, then focus on
quantity rather than quality. And let me
tell you why. There was this university
art professor who was teaching a
ceramics class to his students. And at
the beginning of the semester, he split
his class in half. He told half the
class that you would be graded on your
10 final works. At the end of the
semester, you are to submit 10 works and
you will be graded on the quality of
those 10 works. And they told the other
half of the class, you will be judged
not on the quality of 10 works, but the
total quantity of works that you can
create. So, if you create 300 works in
the semester, you're going to get a
better grade than someone who creates
200. If you create 500 works throughout
the semester, you're going to get a
better grade than someone who creates
499. So he told that half of the class,
"Your whole focus is not on creating
these amazing intricate ceramics, but
just creating and practicing and trying
out as much as possible." Well, I think
you can guess where this is going. The
second group, the group that was told to
submit the biggest quantity possible at
the end of the semester, their top 10
finished products were way better than
the top 10 finished products of group
number one, even though they weren't
told to focus on quality. Sure, they had
some absolute disasters. There were some
terrible works. There were some cracks
and some failures and some ceramics that
just did not pan out. And sure, if you
looked at like their average level of
ceramic, it might have been slightly
lower than the group that was just
focused on quality. I'm not exactly
sure, so don't quote me on that part.
But what I can tell you is that the
group that focused on quantity ended up
creating far better works. And the even
better part, the part that I think is
going to make the biggest difference for
you is that the group that focused on
quality reported much higher levels of
stress, dissatisfaction, overthinking,
anxiety, and all of those other negative
mindsets and negative patterns that can
happen when we focus on quality. And so,
while I'm a big fan of quality content
and so many episodes of Build Your Tribe
are about creating quality content, I am
ultimately a believer that quantity
breeds quality. Basically, to say it
another way, practice makes progress.
The more content you create, the better
your content will get over time. Now, if
every single day you're just posting,
not thinking about it, la posting, not
thinking about it, la, then you're not
going to improve. But if you're posting
and then the next day you're going to
improve one thing. Maybe you're going to
make your caption a little bit stronger.
Maybe you're going to pick your hook and
make your hook a little bit stronger.
Maybe you're going to improve your
editing. Maybe you're going to improve
your storytelling or your set design or
your audio quality. Improving just one
thing every single day will lead you to
be so much better within just a few
months than watching more podcasts and
consuming more YouTube videos and
signing up for more trainings. And
listen, I know that's not the popular
thing to say because I'm a guy who makes
podcasts and YouTube videos and
trainings and I'm always going to be
here to help you along the way. But at
the end of the day, you got to just put
one foot in front of the other. You got
to just start experimenting and start
posting. Learn as you go. And you're
going to improve so much faster than
someone who's constantly overanalyzing
their drafts, spending more time
editing, and spending more time in their
own mind thinking about the content that
they're making. Another one of my
unpopular opinions that goes along with
this school of thought is that it's not
the number of posts that you're making
that is leading to burnout. I believe
that most content creators do not burn
out because they're having to make so
many posts. Because if I told you, hey,
all you have to do every single day, and
I'm not telling you this, by the way,
but just go with the hypothetical for a
second. If I told you, hey, today and
every single day for the rest of the
year, you just have to post two
absolutely random photos from your
camera roll. I don't care what they are.
I don't care what they're related to. I
don't care. I don't care about anything.
Literally just take two random
screenshots, two random photos from your
camera roll and post them. You'd be
like, "Okay, like as long as I don't
forget, that's easy. I'm never going to
burn out." Well, that leads me to say
that it's not purely quantity or the
frequency of posting that leads to
burnout. Instead, what leads to burnout
in my opinion is either number one, and
this is the biggest reason,
overthinking, overanalyzing, spending so
much time, hours on one single post. So
much time thinking about and crafting
and curating and massaging your post
trying to make it an A+ touchdown, home
run, slam dunk. That's super stressful.
And then two, which kind of often is the
result of number one, you post it and it
doesn't do very well. And so that's a
negative feedback loop. Oh my gosh, I
spent three hours. I didn't get very
many likes. Okay, next time I should
spend four hours. I didn't get very many
likes. Oh, I should spend 5 hours. Oh my
gosh, I'm getting even less likes. And
that is anxiety producing. That is
stressful. And I think that leads to
burnout. So, it's either spending too
much time creating your posts. Or the
constant diminishing returns and lower
engagement and views, basically tying
your worth, tying your enjoyment, tying
your satisfaction on the platform to the
results rather than focusing on the
process. That is ultimately what leads
to burnout, not just a high frequency of
posting. And the final thing that I'll
say about focusing on quantity rather
than quality. And this one is probably
the most important reason is that the
more you post, the more you grow. I'll
say it again. The more times you post to
your Instagram feed, we're not including
stories. Stories don't help you grow.
The more times you post to your feed per
week, per day, per month, whatever, the
faster you will grow. There is a direct
correlation between post rate and growth
rate. The more you post, the more you
grow. I've been saying it for years, and
people hate this, and I'll explain why
in just a second, why this is actually
going to be helpful for you. But
according to a new study from Buffer
that was just released in 2025. They
studied over 2 million posts, and they
found what I've been saying for years,
which multiple other studies have found
as well, which is that there is a direct
correlation between post rate and growth
rate, and there is no upper end limit.
meaning that even if you post five or 25
or 500, probably not 500, but you know
that many times a day, you're going to
continue to see growth. Now, here's
where I'm going to say, don't hate me
and make sure that you keep listening.
Yes, the more you post, the more you
grow. But if you run out of ideas, if
you become burnt out, if you can't
handle that frequency during this season
of life and you stop posting, you're not
going to grow. So, what I want to
encourage you to do is rather than
trying to post 15 times a day, pick a
number that you can sustain. Find a
number that works for you, that is
sustainable for you based off all the
factors that might influence that. The
season of life that you're in, the
season of business year you're in, the
uh goals that you currently have, the
capabilities, the resources, the team
that you might have. All of those things
are going to help you decide what your
sustainable frequency is. Pick that
sustainable frequency. Let's say it's
one post a day. And then I want you to
challenge yourself to just create a
little bit more, not work harder. On one
of our recent podcast episodes, someone
left a sarcastic comment basically
saying that they feel like I'm preaching
hustle culture, that I'm preaching to
neglect your emotional well-being and
your mental health and just prioritize
creating content for social media to
please the algorithm overlords. And that
couldn't be farther from the case. I am
so vehemently against hustle culture.
The whole point of me doing this is that
you can spend less time on Instagram,
spend less time working, spend less time
creating content, and more time doing
what you love. My definition for success
is being able to do what I want when I
want with who I want. That means that if
I'm spending more time creating posts
for Instagram every day, I'm not very
successful. And by my definition,
neither are you. So, I want to help you
create systems, use automations, rely on
team members, work smarter and not
harder. And so when I say figure out
what you can sustain and then challenge
yourself to do more, I am not
challenging you to work more or work
harder. I am challenging you to work
smarter, to work less, but increase your
output. Because like I said, ultimately,
the more you post, the more you grow.
And this leads me perfectly into the
third key that you need to know to grow
on Instagram, and it's that consistency
is king. Kind of going along the same
lines of what I was just talking about.
If you post with a super hyper
frequency, three times a day for a week,
but then you burn out, you run out of
ideas, life gets busy, and you miss a
month, it's going to be really hard to
grow. And so, consistency is king. But
let's be real here. Kings are usually
not very sexy. I mean, think about like
any historical painting of a king.
Usually not very sexy. So, consistency
is king, but consistency is also not
very sexy. Additionally, for most people
when they're trying to get consistent,
they think they need more motivation.
Motivation is something that you need
every single day. And if you rely on
motivation to stay consistent, well then
you're not going to be very consistent
for very long because you're going to
run out of motivation one day. You're
going to be more motivated to do
something else one day. You're just not
always going to feel 100% motivated and
inspired to create content for social
media. And so rather than relying on
motivation, I want you to rely on
discipline. What that means is you're
staying consistent even when you don't
feel like it. You're staying consistent
even when it's not easy. You're
embracing the suck. You're embracing
that this is going to take a while. I
think that many of us have a
misconception that Instagram or growing
on Instagram or growing on social media
is going to be fast. And sure, there are
those 1% of people who go viral and they
do quite literally blow up overnight.
But even for those people, what you
usually don't see is the years or
decades of creating content and showing
up online before that one viral video
that led to their success. Often times
on social media, it's spikes in your
growth that lead to growth. Very rarely
is it a straight line up and to the
right. Usually, it's a spike of
followers, a few days, weeks, or months
without a spike, another spike of
followers, days, weeks, or months
without a spike, and then another spike.
And for some people, it's spike, spike,
spike, and then it's exponential growth.
But for most people, it's not consistent
up and to the right. I'm gaining new
followers every day, and I'm gaining
more followers today than I gained
yesterday. That's very rare. That's very
uncommon for most people. It's going to
take 90 days or 120 days, 6 months. It's
going to take an entire year to grow.
So, embrace the suck. Be able to be
disciplined enough to keep showing up.
Now, with that being said, let me give
you some strategies to make it easier
because remember what I said about
working smarter, not harder. Let me give
you some strategies to make it a little
bit easier on yourself. Number one,
schedule your posts in advance. It's a
myth. It's a very outdated myth that if
you schedule posts on Instagram, you're
going to get less engagement. It's just
not true. In my conversation earlier
this year with Adam Ozeri, he said he
schedules all of his posts. I schedule
all of my posts. And there have been
multiple studies done that have
disproven the myth that if you schedule
a post, you're going to get less views
or engagement. So, you should absolutely
be scheduling posts. If you're listening
right now and you're like, "Brock, I
don't have any posts made in advance to
schedule. I I just don't have anything
in the can, so to speak. I can't
schedule because I have nothing made."
Well, then I'm going to give you a tip
that I've shared on this podcast before,
which is that you should take two weeks
off. Not two weeks off of working or
creating, but two weeks off of posting.
Your algorithm will be fine. Your
audience will be fine. Your Instagram
will be fine. Take two weeks and use
those two weeks to batch create as much
as possible. Again, focusing on
everything that we've already talked
about in today's episode. Take those 14
days and make as many posts as you can
without posting any of them. Then once
those two weeks are over, you can return
to, let's say, daily posting and you
have two weeks worth of daily posts
ready to go. You can schedule them out
in advance. And that allows you over
those two weeks to not feel a daily
stress or pressure of creating content.
But instead, you can allow yourself to
create content when you're feeling
inspired or motivated. Uh, that Mword
again, or create content when you have
an idea, or create content when you're
feeling good and looking good, that sort
of thing. because you already have
things scheduled in advance. You don't
have to stress every single day. That's
number one. Number two, ask the question
who, not how. Great book. Highly
recommend it. Basically, ask the
question, who is going to help me post
more rather than how am I going to post
more. Here are three who's that allow me
to post more, create more content, which
ultimately allows me to make more money
for our business. The first who is a who
who can help me do things around the
house in daily life that I'm not very
good at, that take too much of my time,
or that I suck at. And one of those, for
example, is our gardening. In fact,
while I'm speaking right now, our
gardeners are here and they're trimming
our lawn. Maybe you're going to hire the
local 15-year-old down the street who's
a sophomore in high school and needs to
make some extra money to mow your lawn
every other week. Now, you don't have to
spend an hour every other week mowing
your lawn. You're going to pay this kid
to do it. he's able to make some money
for himself and you are able to create x
number of posts during that hour. The
second who that we've added to our
business that allows me to create more
content is a who that takes on other
areas of my business that I suck at. So,
I really suck at organization. I'm not a
very organized person. I'm very type B
and so I'm disorganized. I suck at
numbers. I suck at spreadsheets. All
that sort of stuff. I'm not very good at
it. So, we have people within our Insta
Club hub on our staff who are really
organized, who are really on top of it,
who think of every detail, who never
miss a detail or a date or deadline, and
they help keep the business running.
They help keep me detailed and organized
so that I don't have to do those things
myself. And then the third who that I've
added to my team to help me create more
content in less time is a who helps me
with content specifically. So, I have an
editor. You've heard me promote her if
you follow me on Instagram. I promote
her on my Instagram stories all the time
because people are always asking me who
my editor is. I don't edit the majority
of my content. And I love editing. I
think I'm pretty good at editing. I did
editing in my high school video
production class and I minored in film
study in college. I love cinematography
and editing, but I know it's not my zone
of genius. I know that there are people
out there who are better and who can do
it faster than me. And so rather than
spending all of my time editing my own
posts, I've outsourced and hired an
editor who keyword who can help me
create more posts in less time. The
third way that you can create more posts
in less time and be more consistent
without having to work harder or longer
at Instagram is to rely on the magical
tool of AI and or just automations in
general. The more that you can
systematize and automate and rely on AI
for, the better. I'll give you an
example that relates to what you're
listening to right now. When I finish
this podcast, I use a pre-written prompt
in ChatGpt to help come up with the
description and the keywords for this
episode. So, if you go and read that
description right down there right now
on this YouTube video, that was written
by Chat GPT. That saves me the time that
I used to spend myself writing a long
description. And so it might only be
five or 10 minutes, but if it only takes
me five or 10 minutes to make an
Instagram reel, well then I just bought
myself one Instagram reel with one
simple prompt for chat GPT. And then
last but not least, actually last but
most, the most helpful cheat code
strategy for posting more and less time,
creating more content with less work,
energy, and effort is what I like to
call upycling your content. Upycling is
a term that I use to describe taking a
post that you have previously posted.
Let's say you posted it back in March of
2025 and posting it a second time. Not
changing a damn thing. Same caption,
same audio, same edit, same everything.
You're taking the exact same post and
you're posting it a second time. Or you
can slightly modify it, maybe update a
little bit, maybe change the edit a
little bit or rewrite the caption a
little bit. But you don't even have to
do that. You can literally take your
post and post it a second time. Let me
answer some FAQs that I know rapid fire
questions are popping into your head
right now. Do I have to delete the
original one? No, you do not. Am I going
to get in trouble for posting the same
thing twice? No. The Instagram algorithm
and Instagram as a whole, they know that
this is your content. You are free to
post it a second time. I spoke directly
with Instagram staff about this very
question within the last two weeks and
directly from the horse's mouth. It's
your content. You are free to post it a
second time. You will not get flagged as
spam or stealing content because it's
your own content. You can't steal what's
legally yours. Do I need to announce
that I'm posting this again? No, you
don't. Because most people didn't see it
the first time and they don't care. So,
why would you advertise, I'm posting
this again. I posted this a few months
ago, but you didn't see. No, just just
post it. And then finally, why is this
effective? That's probably the most
important question. Why should you
upcycle your content? Well, you already
understand that it's going to save you
time, energy, and effort. But more
importantly, most of your followers
didn't see it the first time. Think
about this. The average person sees
10,000 posts a day. So, if it's been,
let's just say, 2 months between the
first time you posted it and the second
time you posted it, that's 60 days times
10,000 posts a day. They've seen 600,000
posts in the last 2 months, please don't
flatter yourself. They don't remember
yours. Most of them didn't even see it.
The few who did see it don't remember.
And if there is like 1% of your audience
who does remember, they remember because
it was that good. Think about your own
favorite movie. You have likely
rewatched it more than once, right?
Unless it just came out and you just
watched it, you've probably watched it
multiple times. I mean, heck, even if it
did just come out, you might have gone
and seen it multiple times in theaters
because it was that good. And if it's
that good, you wouldn't mind seeing it
again. So, please, if you want to create
more content in less time without having
to do any additional work, start
upycling your content. That was number
three. Moving on. Now, the fourth
biggest key to growing on Instagram and
having success in 2025 and even into
2026 and moving forward is that you got
to forget all of the rules and stop
worrying about all of the latest hacks.
I'm going to say it as plainly as I
possibly can. There are no rules. Well,
I mean, I guess there are some rules,
but they're more like limitations that
Instagram put in place. Like, you can't
post pictures of your naked on
Instagram. You're going to get in
trouble for that. You can't post a real
longer than 3 minutes. Instagram doesn't
allow it. But in terms of rules for how
you post, there are no rules. Everything
that I'm sharing with you forever is not
a rule. It's a general recommendation.
It's a best practice. It might be
researched and it might be what works
for most people, but that doesn't mean
that you're going to go to jail if you
break the rule. What I always say is if
you figure out that something works for
you and I've told you to do the
opposite, please give me the middle
finger and don't do what I told you.
Because at the end of the day, nothing
works 100% of the time. And so if you
find a strategy or a technique or
something that just works for you, knock
your socks off and keep doing it. And
don't worry about whatever me or any
other Instagram expert is telling you to
do. Additionally, stop worrying so much
about every single hack. A hack is a
term that I use to describe strategies
that work for a short period of time.
They're taking advantage of some
Instagram update, some change, or some
quirk in the way the app works or the
way it was designed. And they usually
only work for a few weeks or maybe a few
months. Very rarely do hacks work for
more than a few months. I think there
might be a couple that have worked for a
few years, but they're usually as soon
as Instagram catches on, worked out of
the algorithm and removed. And so, while
a hack might give you a short boost of
views, it might really work on one post,
there's always more hacks. And so I
don't want you to stress out over
whatever the seven latest hacks are. And
again, I know this sounds silly because
I'm always going to be posting about
what the latest hacks are because I know
that there are some people who are going
to use those hacks and are going to see
great benefits because of them. Let me
go through some of those hacks for you
right now. Number one, the best time to
post. There is no best time to post.
It's like, "Hey, Brooke, what's the best
time to work out?" Well, there might be
better times to work out because maybe
the gym is less crowded or maybe like
your energy levels are higher at
different times of the day, that sort of
thing. But at the end of the day, there
isn't a best time to work out. And even
more so, even if there was a best time
to work out, you would be healthier by
exercising, period, rather than skipping
an entire day of exercise because you
missed the perfect time. To equate that
to Instagram, you would be better
growing. You would grow more. You would
grow faster. You would get more
engagement by posting, period. I don't
care if it's at 3:00 a.m. I don't care
if it's at 1:00 in the afternoon. I
don't care what time it is. You would be
better off posting than skipping a day
because you missed your perfect time.
The second hack is hashtags. Hashtags
used to be super effective. In 2017, I
created a course called Help with
Hashtags that was designed to help you
create a list of hashtags that was going
to consistently get you results. But the
algorithm has been optimized so that you
no longer need to worry so much about
hashtags. Sure. Are there some people
who have great success using hashtags?
Yep. Sure. Are there some people who
have great success without using any
hashtags? Yep. On average, do posts with
zero hashtags get the most views and
engagement? Yep. But at the end of the
day, don't stress about hashtags. If you
want to use them, if you see great
results with them, great. If you don't
use them and you don't see results with
them, that's fine, too. Number three,
and this one has been really popular
over the last few years, trending
audios. Could you get more views if you
use a trending audio right at that
perfect moment right as it's blowing up
before it reaches its like peak
popularity when it's still on the
incline? Sure. Yeah, you could get some
more views for that. But I think a lot
of people stress themselves out trying
to figure out what's the latest trending
audio. What's how many views does this
audio have? How many people have already
used this audio? Should I use it? Is it
too early? Is it too late? If you have a
good idea that goes along with a
trending popular audio, use it. If you
see a trending popular audio that you
don't have any ideas for, don't use it.
Bottom line is don't stress out about a
trending audio. Just pick the audio, the
sound bites, the songs that spark ideas
in you and use them. And then the final
hack is one that I was talking about for
most of 2025, but I've also been telling
you for most of 2025, use it while you
can because Instagram's going to take it
away at some point, and that's none
other than trial reels. Trial reels were
created at the beginning of 2025 as a
way to test out content, but really it
was a way for us to get our reels in
front of people who have never seen us
before. The way trial reels work is that
they are only shown to non-followers.
They are not shown to your existing
followers. And so, for the majority of
2025, I've been telling people to post
as many as you can. Pro tip, you could
upcycle your old content from the past
and post as many trial reels as you can.
But I've also been saying while you can
because Instagram's going to figure this
out. Instagram is going to figure that
all of us content creators and brands
and marketers are taking advantage of
the system and we are getting our
content seen by more people because we
figured out how to hack this new
feature. And this is a hack that I've
got some push back for. But from my
point of view, don't hate the player,
hate the game. Our jobs as business
owners and marketers and content
creators is to get attention, to get
views and eyeballs and to get then
conversions into our business or
customers or followers. And so if
Instagram is going to give us a feature
that allows us to do that better
arguably than any other feature before,
then we might as well use it and use it
to its fullest capability until
Instagram says, "Whoa, whoa, whoa. Okay,
we need to reel things in." And just as
I've been predicting all year, Instagram
has reeled things in. And so now there
is a limit on trial reels. You can post
between five and 25 trial reels per day.
How many you are specifically allowed to
post on your account varies and there's
no way to tell until you exceed that
limit. Again, some people if they post
more than five, if they try to post a
sixth trial reel within a 24-hour
period, they will get blocked for 30
days, meaning that they can't post any
more trial reels for another month. Some
people can post 25 trial reels a day,
every single day, with no problem.
Again, there's no way to figure it out
in advance. And so, my current
recommendation is to post no more and no
less than five trial reels every single
day. But again, that's a hack, so don't
stress out over it if you can't create
five. If you can't post five, if you
can't remember to do it, that's okay.
There will be another hack. There will
always be these little tiny strategies
that work for a few months. So, I don't
want you to stress out over them. I
don't want you to focus on them because
they're usually just going to be a
little blip. They might make a little
difference for a few weeks, but they're
not going to make or break your
Instagram. And then last but not least
is actually step number one for growing
on Instagram. And step number one for
growing on Instagram is to niche down.
Just like the more you post, the more
you grow. The more you niche, the more
you grow. I define niche in two parts.
Part number one of your niche is the
who. Who are you trying to talk to? Who
are you trying to attract to your page?
Who is your target demographic or your
ideal followers? Basically, the more
specific that you can get with the
demographics of the who, the better
because it will allow you to speak to
them more precisely. It will allow you
to solve their needs, calm their
stresses, and create products and
solutions and posts that directly speak
to them even better. The second part of
niche is not just who you're trying to
attract, but what are you going to be
talking to them about? What is the
specific problem that you solve? What is
the specific topic that you're going to
be posting about? What is that niche
interest that you can just yap about all
day long and people are going to follow
you because of it? You do not need to be
an expert, but you likely need
experience. Again, you don't need some
sort of certification or qualification.
You just need past lived experience in
that niche in order to be credible to be
in that niche. Oftentimes, when I bring
this up, people will name famous
influencers who don't have a niche.
famous influencers who have tens of
millions or hundreds of millions of
followers and they post about everything
and anything. They post about every
single interest and passion and hobby
that they have like Kim Kardashian for
example. And what I will say is that
what they're doing now is not what got
them to where they are. Let's take Kim
Kardashian as an example. She became
famous for one thing in particular. One
thing that I am not going to say on this
podcast because I don't want to lose my
monetization status, but Kim K, love
her. She became famous. She became
really popular for one thing in
particular and then she got famous and
over time she started to broaden her
niche and that's how it works. When you
first become known, when you first
become famous, it is because of one
thing. When you first grow a following,
it is because of one specific niche. And
then once you grow that niche, once you
grow that audience and that following,
you can start to expand. You can start
to talk about other things. Let's talk
about Shelene Johnson, the former
co-host of this podcast, which yes, it's
former. or if this is the first episode
you've listened to in a few months, she
is no longer the co-host of the show.
She will likely be invited back for
future episodes, but I am now the solo
host of Build Your Tribe. But long story
short, my mom grew her popularity
because of fitness videos. Y'all know
her and so many of you found her because
of her fitness infomercials. You turned
on your TV at 2 a.m. one night when you
couldn't sleep and there was this little
5'2 blonde lady bouncing around and
you're like, "Oh, I like her energy and
I've got a few pounds to lose." So, you
order a DVD and then you worked out with
her for the next 10 years and then she
got on Instagram and you already loved
her back in 2010 when you first got on
Instagram. That is how my mom Shelene
Johnson built her original audience. She
had a specific niche. She was helping a
specific demographic of women with a
specific problem. But then over time,
she started to show you her other
interests. Her interests in marketing,
her fitness in other areas of holistic
health, her expertise in building an
online business. And so you started to
be interested in those things with her,
but she didn't grow her audience. And in
fact, if you study her growth over time,
her growth significantly plateaued as
she started to talk about all of these
other interests that she had. So if
you're just getting started on Instagram
or if it feels like no matter what
you're doing, you just can't grow, I
want to encourage you to niche down even
farther. get more specific with the
demographics and get more specific with
the targeted area, the specific topic
that you're going to be focused on
because then you could be the world's
leading expert hypothetically in this
one topic. You can be the go-to account
for this one thing. And sure, while that
might not equate to 100 million
followers, it might equate to 10,000
superengaged followers. Heck, it might
even equate to only a thousand engaged
followers. But if you're familiar with
the idea of a thousand true fans, you
can make a million dollars a year with
only a thousand true followers. And the
way you build those thousand true
followers is by niching down. When it
comes to the followers that you have,
sure, quantity looks cool, but it's the
quality of your followers that's
ultimately going to make the biggest
difference in your brand, your business,
and your engagement. The bottom line is
this. Start with your foundation being
your niche. the specific demographics,
the who and the what that you're going
to be posting for. Then figure out what
those people actually want to see. Focus
on them as the audience, not the
algorithm, but focus on that audience
and create content that they resonate
with, that they find engaging,
entertaining, inspiring, etc., etc.,
whatever. And then in order to create
better content, which is ultimately how
you're going to reach the masses, how
you're going to go viral. The way that
you do that, the way that you stay
consistent, the way that you show up
every single day is you don't worry
about the hacks. You don't worry about
every little rule and every little uh
voice in your head. And you don't worry
about overthinking every damn post that
you make. You ultimately lean into
quantity first because quantity breeds
quality. Practice leads to progress.
That is how you learn. That is how you
improve. And that is how you grow on
Instagram.